chore(docs) blog post SAMPLE BY (#1199)
questdb/questdb.io: blog/2022-11-23-sql-extensions-time-series-data-questdb-part-ii.md

following data after running a `SELECT *` query on the `taxi_trips` table:

![](https://i.imgur.com/QwI0YVe.png)

## Understanding the basics of `SAMPLE BY`

The `SAMPLE BY` extension allows you to create groups and buckets of data based
on time ranges. This is especially valuable for time-series data as you can
calculate frequently used aggregates with extreme simplicity. `SAMPLE BY` offers
you the ability to summarize or aggregate data from very fine to very coarse
[units of time](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#sample-units), i.e., from
microseconds to months and everything in between (milliseconds, seconds, minutes,
hours, and days). You can also derive other units of time, such as a week,
fortnight, and year from the ones provided out of the box.

Let's look at some examples to understand how to use `SAMPLE BY` in different
scenarios.

### Hourly count of trips

You can use the `SAMPLE BY` keyword with the
[sample unit](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#sample-units) of `h` to get an
hour-by-hour count of trips for the whole duration of the data set. Running the
following query, you'll get results in the console:

```sql

> SELECT pickup_datetime,
>        COUNT() total_trips
>   FROM 'taxi_trips'
>  SAMPLE BY 1h;

Reviewer: nit: some queries in this blog post have off-looking indentation.

To keep formatting consistent i usually use the `format selection`
function on our [demo web-console](https://demo.questdb.io/): 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4284659/203515279-a6d0e899-a8b9-4a03-a5e4-34a3509f79d2.png)

after formatting this query it looks like this:

```suggestion
SELECT
  pickup_datetime,
  COUNT() total_trips
FROM
  'taxi_trips' SAMPLE BY 1h;
```

usually it works really nice but sometimes it might be too "new-liney".

Just wanted to share my approach, feel free to decide whether it's worth
doing this on this blog post.

```sql
SELECT pickup_datetime,
       COUNT() total_trips,
       SUM(passenger_count) total_passengers,
       ROUND(AVG(trip_distance), 2) avg_trip_distance,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount)) total_fare_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(tip_amount)) total_tip_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount + tip_amount)) total_earnings
  FROM 'taxi_trips'
 SAMPLE BY 3h;
```

You can view the output of the query in the following grid on the QuestDB
console:

![](https://i.imgur.com/NG2sDIV.png)

### Weekly summary of trips

As mentioned above, although there's no sample unit for a week, a fortnight, or
a year, you can derive them simply by utilizing the built-in sample units. If
you want to sample the data by a week, use `7d` as the sampling time, as shown
in the query below:

```sql
SELECT pickup_datetime,
       COUNT() total_trips,
       SUM(passenger_count) total_passengers,
       ROUND(AVG(trip_distance), 2) avg_trip_distance,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount)) total_fare_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(tip_amount)) total_tip_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount + tip_amount)) total_earnings
  FROM 'taxi_trips'
 WHERE pickup_datetime BETWEEN '2018-02-01' AND '2018-02-28'
 SAMPLE BY 7d;
```

> ![](https://i.imgur.com/f5lVlQL.png)

Reviewer: let's not use a 3rd-party provider to host our images.
Images should be in `/static/img/blog/2022-11-23`

this is repeated in multiple places in this file.
I'm leaving the same comment on each as a mark.

data, is discontinuity, i.e., scenarios where data is missing for specific time
periods. You can quickly identify and deal with missing data using the advanced
functionality of the `SAMPLE BY` extension.

QuestDB offers an easy way to generate and fill in missing data with the
`SAMPLE BY` clause. Take the following example: I've deliberately removed data
from 4 am to 5 am for the 1st of February 2018. Notice how the
[`FILL` keyword](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#fill-options), when used in
conjunction with the `SAMPLE BY` extension, can generate a row for the hour
starting at 4 am and fill it with data generated from linear interpolation of
the 2 surrounding points:

```sql
SELECT pickup_datetime,
       COUNT() total_trips,
       SUM(passenger_count) total_passengers,
       ROUND(AVG(trip_distance), 2) avg_trip_distance,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount)) total_fare_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(tip_amount)) total_tip_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount + tip_amount)) total_earnings
  FROM 'taxi_trips'
 WHERE pickup_datetime NOT BETWEEN '2018-02-01T04:00:00' AND '2018-02-01T04:59:59'
 SAMPLE BY 1h FILL(LINEAR);
```

> ![](https://i.imgur.com/8hD7Lmw.png)

Reviewer: let's not use a 3rd-party provider to host our images.
Images should be in `/static/img/blog/2022-11-23`

this is repeated in multiple places in this file.
I'm leaving the same comment on each as a mark.

| NULL         | When you want to generate rows for missing time periods, but leave all the values as NULLs                             |                                                                                       |
| PREV         | When you want to copy the values of the previous row from the summarized data                                          | This is useful when you expect the numbers to be similar to the preceding time period |
| LINEAR       | When you want to normalize the missing values, you can take the average of the immediately preceding and following row |                                                                                       |
| CONST or x   | When you want to hardcode values where data is missing                                                                 | FILL (column_1, column_2, column_3, ...)                                              |

Here's another example of hardcoding values using the FILL(x) `fillOption`:

> ![](https://i.imgur.com/gN0LO6g.png)

Reviewer: let's not use a 3rd-party provider to host our images.
Images should be in `/static/img/blog/2022-11-23`

this is repeated in multiple places in this file.
I'm leaving the same comment on each as a mark.

separate table with missing trips using the same idea, as shown below:

```sql
CREATE TABLE 'taxi_trips_missing' AS (
SELECT * FROM 'taxi_trips'
WHERE pickup_datetime
  NOT BETWEEN '2018-02-01T04:00:00'
  AND '2018-02-01T04:59:59');
```

## Working with timezones and offsets

The `SAMPLE BY` extension also enables you to change timezones and add or
subtract offsets from your timestamp columns to adjust for any issues you might
encounter when dealing with different source systems, especially in different
geographic areas. It is important to note that, by default, QuestDB aligns its
[sample calculation](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#sample-calculation) based on
the `FIRST OBSERVATION`, as shown in the example below:

```sql
SELECT pickup_datetime,
       COUNT() total_trips,
       SUM(passenger_count) total_passengers,
       ROUND(AVG(trip_distance), 2) avg_trip_distance,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount)) total_fare_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(tip_amount)) total_tip_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount + tip_amount)) total_earnings
  FROM 'taxi_trips'
 WHERE pickup_datetime BETWEEN '2018-02-01T13:35:52' AND '2018-02-28'
 SAMPLE BY 1d;
```

> ![](https://i.imgur.com/U9m6k6s.png)

Reviewer: let's not use a 3rd-party provider to host our images.
Images should be in `/static/img/blog/2022-11-23`

this is repeated in multiple places in this file.
I'm leaving the same comment on each as a mark.

issues with time zones. For the sake of demonstration, let's assume that you're
working in New York City, but you've identified that the timestamps of the data
set you've loaded into the database are in Australian Eastern Time (instead of
New York's EST). Traditionally, this could lead to extra conversion work to
ensure that this new data is comparable to the rest of your data in EST.

QuestDB allows you to easily fix this issue by aligning your data to another
timezone using the
[`ALIGN TO CALENDAR TIME ZONE` option](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#time-zone)
with the `SAMPLE BY` extension. In the example shown below, you can see how an
`ALIGN TO CALENDAR TIME ZONE ('AEST')` has aligned the `pickup_datetime`, i.e.,
the designated timestamp column to the AEST timezone for Melbourne.

```sql
SELECT pickup_datetime,
       COUNT() total_trips,
       SUM(passenger_count) total_passengers,
       ROUND(AVG(trip_distance), 2) avg_trip_distance,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount)) total_fare_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(tip_amount)) total_tip_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount + tip_amount)) total_earnings
  FROM 'taxi_trips'
 SAMPLE BY 3h
 ALIGN TO CALENDAR TIME ZONE ('AEST');
```

> ![](https://i.imgur.com/szB7CMD.png)

Reviewer: let's not use a 3rd-party provider to host our images.
Images should be in `/static/img/blog/2022-11-23`

this is repeated in multiple places in this file.
I'm leaving the same comment on each as a mark.

### Aligning sample calculation with offsets

Similar to the previous example, you can also align the sample calculation by
[offsetting the designated timestamp](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#with-offset)
column manually by any `hh:mm` value between -23:59 to 23:59. In the following
example, we're offsetting the sample calculation by -5:30, i.e., negative five
hours and thirty minutes:

```sql
SELECT pickup_datetime,
       COUNT() total_trips,
       SUM(passenger_count) total_passengers,
       ROUND(AVG(trip_distance), 2) avg_trip_distance,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount)) total_fare_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(tip_amount)) total_tip_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount + tip_amount)) total_earnings
  FROM 'taxi_trips'
 SAMPLE BY 3h
 ALIGN TO CALENDAR WITH OFFSET '-05:30';
```

> ![](https://i.imgur.com/3xyC6kt.png)

Reviewer: let's not use a 3rd-party provider to host our images.
Images should be in `/static/img/blog/2022-11-23`

this is repeated in multiple places in this file.
I'm leaving the same comment on each as a mark.

---

> title: SQL extensions for time series data in QuestDB - part II

Author: ```suggestion
title: SQL Extensions for Time Series Data in QuestDB - Part II
```

author: Kovid Rathee
author_title: Guest post
author_url: https://kovidrathee.medium.com/
author_image_url: https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*_CwYR2OmNap47tQO.jpg
description: SQL extensions for time series data in QuestDB part II
keywords:
  - tutorial
  - sql
  - questdb
  - timeseries
image: /img/blog/2022-11-23/banner.png
tags: [tutorial, sql, timeseries, questdb]
---

This post comes from [Kovid Rathee](https://kovidrathee.medium.com/), who,
following up on the
[first tutorial](https://towardsdatascience.com/sql-extensions-for-time-series-data-in-questdb-f6b53acf3213),
has put together another tutorial on SQL extensions for time series data in
QuestDB.

<!--truncate-->

import Banner from "@theme/Banner"

<Banner
  alt="A screenshot of the QuestDB Web Console with a SAMPLE BY query"
  height={467}
  src="/img/blog/2022-11-23/banner.png"
  width={650}
></Banner>

## Introduction

This tutorial follows up on the one where we introduced
[SQL extensions in QuestDB](https://towardsdatascience.com/sql-extensions-for-time-series-data-in-questdb-f6b53acf3213)

> that make time-series analysis easier. In this tutorial, you will learn in
> detail about the [`SAMPLE BY` extension](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by/) in

Author: ```suggestion
that make time-series analysis easier. Today, you will learn about the [`SAMPLE BY` extension](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by/) in detail,
```

> QuestDB, which will enable you to work with time-series data efficiently because

Author: ```suggestion
which will enable you to work with time-series data efficiently because
```

data-related issues, such as
[missing data](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#fill-options),
[incorrect timezones](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#time-zone), and
[offsets](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#with-offset).

This tutorial assumes you have an up-and-running QuestDB instance ready for use.
Let's dive straight into it.

## Setup

### Import sample data

Similar to the previous tutorial, we'll use
[the NYC taxi rides data for February 2018](https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/questdb.io/datasets/grafana_tutorial_dataset.tar.gz).
You can use the following script utilizing the
[HTTP REST API](/docs/guides/importing-data-rest/) to upload data into QuestDB:

```sh
curl https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/questdb.io/datasets/grafana_tutorial_dataset.tar.gz > grafana_data.tar.gz
tar -xvf grafana_data.tar.gz
curl -F data=@taxi_trips_feb_2018.csv http://localhost:9000/imp
curl -F data=@weather.csv http://localhost:9000/imp
```

Alternatively, you can utilize
[the import functionality in the QuestDB console](/docs/develop/web-console#import),
as shown in the image below:

![](https://i.imgur.com/EWniDQq.png)

### Create an ordered timestamp column

> QuestDB mandates the use of an ordered timestamp column, so you'll have to cast

Author: It's needed to use SAMPLE BY and it works with the designated timestamp so yes one per table - the information is in the paragraph after the code and ti is not ideal. I will add something here in `1a5b8f`.

the `pickup_datetime` column to `TIMESTAMP` in a new table called `taxi_trips`
with the script below:

```sql
CREATE TABLE taxi_trips AS (
  SELECT *
    FROM 'taxi_trips_feb_2018.csv'
   ORDER BY pickup_datetime
) TIMESTAMP(pickup_datetime)
PARTITION BY MONTH;
```

> By converting the `pickup_datetime` column to timestamp, you'll allow QuestDB to

Author: I will change it this way:

```suggestion
By converting the `pickup_datetime` column to `timestamp`, you allow QuestDB to
```

use it as the [designated timestamp](/docs/concept/designated-timestamp/). Using
the designated timestamp column, QuestDB is able to index the table to run
time-based queries more efficiently. If it all goes well, you should see the
following data after running a `SELECT *` query on the `taxi_trips` table:

![](https://i.imgur.com/QwI0YVe.png)

## Understanding the basics of `SAMPLE BY`

The `SAMPLE BY` extension allows you to create groups and buckets of data based
on time ranges. This is especially valuable for time-series data as you can
calculate frequently used aggregates with extreme simplicity. `SAMPLE BY` offers
you the ability to summarize or aggregate data from very fine to very coarse
[units of time](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#sample-units), i.e., from

> microseconds to months and everything in between, i.e., millisecond, second,

Author: ```suggestion
microseconds to months and everything in between (millisecond, second,
```

minute, hour, and day. You can derive other units of time, such as a week,
fortnight, and year from the ones provided out of the box.

Let's look at some examples to understand how to use `SAMPLE BY` in different
scenarios.

### Hourly count of trips

You can use the `SAMPLE BY` keyword with the
[sample unit](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#sample-units) of `h` to get an
hour-by-hour count of trips for the whole duration of the data set. Running the
following query, you'll get results in the console:

```sql
SELECT pickup_datetime,
       COUNT() total_trips
  FROM 'taxi_trips'
 SAMPLE BY 1h;
```

There are two ways you can read your data in the QuestDB console: using the
grid, which has a tabular form factor or using a chart, where you can draw up a

> line chart, a bar graph, or an area chart to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
line, bar, or an area chart to
```

[visualize your data](/docs/develop/web-console#visualizing-results). Here's an

> example of a bar chart drawn from the query mentioned above:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
example of a bar chart drawn from the above query:
```

       COUNT() total_trips,
       SUM(passenger_count) total_passengers,
       ROUND(AVG(trip_distance), 2) avg_trip_distance,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount)) total_fare_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(tip_amount)) total_tip_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount + tip_amount)) total_earnings
  FROM 'taxi_trips'
 WHERE pickup_datetime BETWEEN '2018-02-01' AND '2018-02-28'
 SAMPLE BY 7d;
```

![](https://i.imgur.com/f5lVlQL.png)

## Dealing with missing data

If you've worked a fair bit with data, you already know that data isn't always
in a pristine state. One of the most common issues, especially with time-series
data, is discontinuity, i.e., scenarios where data is missing for specific time
periods. You can quickly identify and deal with missing data using the advanced
functionality of the `SAMPLE BY` extension.

QuestDB offers an easy way to generate and fill in missing data with the
`SAMPLE BY` clause. Take the following example: I've deliberately removed data
from 4 am to 5 am for the 1st of February 2018. Notice how the
[`FILL` keyword](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#fill-options), when used in
conjunction with the `SAMPLE BY` extension, can generate a row for the hour

> starting at 4 am and fill it with some data:

Author: Yes details added in `1a5b8f`.

```sql
SELECT pickup_datetime,
       COUNT() total_trips,
       SUM(passenger_count) total_passengers,
       ROUND(AVG(trip_distance), 2) avg_trip_distance,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount)) total_fare_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(tip_amount)) total_tip_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount + tip_amount)) total_earnings
  FROM 'taxi_trips'
 WHERE pickup_datetime NOT BETWEEN '2018-02-01T04:00:00' AND '2018-02-01T04:59:59'
 SAMPLE BY 1h FILL(LINEAR);
```

![](https://i.imgur.com/8hD7Lmw.png)

In the example above, we've used an inline `WHERE` clause to emulate missing

> clause with the help of the `NOT BETWEEN` keyword. Alternatively, you can create

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
data with the help of the `NOT BETWEEN` keyword. Alternatively, you can create
```

a separate table with missing trips using the same idea, as shown below:

```sql
CREATE TABLE 'taxi_trips_missing' AS (
SELECT * FROM 'taxi_trips'
WHERE pickup_datetime
  NOT BETWEEN '2018-02-01T04:00:00'
  AND '2018-02-01T04:59:59');
```

> Ideally, you should use `DROP PARTITION` to emulate missing data, but because

Reviewer 2: Why should we use `DROP PARTITION`?

Author: Using drop partition, there is no need to create a new table. I think it is a digression and will delete it and move the CREATE TABLE section to the end of this section as additional info.
Fixed in `1a5b8f`

| PREV         | When you want to copy the values of the previous row from the summarized data                                          | This is useful when you expect the numbers to be similar to the preceding time period |
| LINEAR       | When you want to normalize the missing values, you can take the average of the immediately preceding and following row |                                                                                       |
| CONST or x   | When you want to hardcode values where data is missing                                                                 | FILL (column_1, column_2, column_3, ...)                                              |

Here's another example of hardcoding values using the FILL(x) `fillOption`:

![](https://i.imgur.com/gN0LO6g.png)

## Working with timezones and offsets

The `SAMPLE BY` extension also enables you to change timezones and add or
subtract offsets from your timestamp columns to adjust for any issues you might

> encounter when dealing with different source systems, especially in other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
encounter when dealing with different source systems, especially in different
```

geographic areas. It is important to note that, by default, QuestDB aligns its
[sample calculation](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#sample-calculation) based on
the `FIRST OBSERVATION`, as shown in the example below:

```sql
SELECT pickup_datetime,
       COUNT() total_trips,
       SUM(passenger_count) total_passengers,
       ROUND(AVG(trip_distance), 2) avg_trip_distance,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount)) total_fare_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(tip_amount)) total_tip_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount + tip_amount)) total_earnings
  FROM 'taxi_trips'
 WHERE pickup_datetime BETWEEN '2018-02-01T13:35:52' AND '2018-02-28'
 SAMPLE BY 1d;
```

![](https://i.imgur.com/U9m6k6s.png)

> Note now the `1d` sample calculation starts at `13:35:52` and ends at `13:35:51`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that now the `1d` sample calculation starts at `13:35:52` and ends at `13:35:51`
```

> the next day. Apart from the one demonstrated above, there are two other ways to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the next day. Apart from the option demonstrated above, there are two other ways to
```

align your sample calculations - to the
[calendar time zone](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#time-zone), and to
[calendar with offset](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#with-offset).

> Let's look at the other two alignment methods now.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's take a look at the other two alignment methods.
```

### Aligning sample calculation to another timezone

> When moving data from one system to another or via a complex pipeline, you can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When moving data across systems, pipelines, and warehouses, you can
```

encounter issues with time zones. For the sake of demonstration, let's assume

> that you've identified that the data set you've loaded into the database is not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that you're working in New York City, but you've identified that the timestamps of the data set you've loaded into the database are in Australian Eastern Time (instead of New York's EST).  Traditionally, this could lead to extra conversion work to ensure that this new data is comparable to the rest of your data in EST.
```

Reviewer 2: ^ replaces the rest of the paragraph

> that you've identified that the data set you've loaded into the database is not
> for New York City but for Melbourne, Australia. These two cities are far apart
> and are in very different time zones.

Author: ```suggestion
that you're working in New York City, but you've identified that the timestamps of the data set you've loaded into the database are in Australian Eastern Time (instead of New York's EST). Traditionally, this could lead to extra conversion work to ensure that this new data is comparable to the rest of your data in EST.
```

> QuestDB allows you to fix this issue by aligning your data to another timezone

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
QuestDB allows you to easily fix this issue by aligning your data to another timezone
```

using the
[`ALIGN TO CALENDAR TIME ZONE` option](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#time-zone)
with the `SAMPLE BY` extension. In the example shown below, you can see how an

> `ALIGN TO CALENDAR TIME ZONE ('AEST')` has helped align the `pickup_datetime`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`ALIGN TO CALENDAR TIME ZONE ('AEST')` has aligned the `pickup_datetime`,
```

i.e., the designated timestamp column to the AEST timezone for Melbourne.

```sql
SELECT pickup_datetime,
       COUNT() total_trips,
       SUM(passenger_count) total_passengers,
       ROUND(AVG(trip_distance), 2) avg_trip_distance,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount)) total_fare_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(tip_amount)) total_tip_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount + tip_amount)) total_earnings
  FROM 'taxi_trips'
 SAMPLE BY 3h
 ALIGN TO CALENDAR TIME ZONE ('AEST');
```

![](https://i.imgur.com/szB7CMD.png)

### Aligning sample calculation with offsets

> Similar to the previous example, you can also align your sample calculation by

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similar to the previous example, you can also align the sample calculation by
```

[offsetting the designated timestamp](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#with-offset)
column manually by any `hh:mm` value between -23:59 to 23:59. In the following
example, we're offsetting the sample calculation by -5:30, i.e., negative five
hours and thirty minutes:

```sql
SELECT pickup_datetime,
       COUNT() total_trips,
       SUM(passenger_count) total_passengers,
       ROUND(AVG(trip_distance), 2) avg_trip_distance,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount)) total_fare_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(tip_amount)) total_tip_amount,
       ROUND(SUM(fare_amount + tip_amount)) total_earnings
  FROM 'taxi_trips'
 SAMPLE BY 3h
 ALIGN TO CALENDAR WITH OFFSET '-05:30';
```

![](https://i.imgur.com/3xyC6kt.png)

## Conclusion

In this tutorial, you learned how to exploit the
[`SAMPLE BY` extension](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by/) in QuestDB to work
efficiently with time-series data, especially in aggregated form. In addition,

> the `SAMPLE BY` extension also allows you to fix specific common problems with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the `SAMPLE BY` extension also allows you to fix common problems with
```

time-series data attributable to complex data pipelines, disparate source
systems in different geographical areas, software bugs, etc. All in all, SQL

> extensions like `SAMPLE BY` provide a significant advantage when working with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
extensions in QuestDB, like `SAMPLE BY`, provide a significant advantage when working with
```

PARTITION BY MONTH;
```

> By converting the `pickup_datetime` column to `timestamp`, you allow QuestDB to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By converting the `pickup_datetime` column to `timestamp`, you are allowing QuestDB to
```

calculate frequently used aggregates with extreme simplicity. `SAMPLE BY` offers
you the ability to summarize or aggregate data from very fine to very coarse
[units of time](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by#sample-units), i.e., from

> microseconds to months and everything in between (millisecond, second, minute,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
microseconds to months and everything in between (milliseconds, seconds, minutes,
```
